
# CoviChecker
## Introduction
In this pandemic, majority of the covid positive patients are  isolated in their homes. Lack of hospital beds and isolation centers has made it impossible for most patients to get access to professional medicare one gets in hospitals like nurses, ward boys etc. Most of the time these patients have to take care of their parameters and their medicines on an daily and timely  basis as this is crucial for their recovery. Being isolated and sick at the same time it becomes quite difficult for the patient to keep track of their parameters and take meds without a fail. Tracking parameters and not missing any medicines is extremely important as failing to do so may lead to devastating health deteoritation and even death. 80% of covid positive patients in india recover in their homes. So we have come up with a practical solution to this problem. We have created a notification system along with a parameter log tracker which would help these patients keep track of their parameters and medicines on a timely interval. They could later refer to these logs while consulting their doctor regarding their health status.
## Deployment
View our deployed application here:https://covi-checker.herokuapp.com/
## Idea
We are striving to create a monitoring system in the form of a web application
that would help  the users to keep track of their important health parameters like Sp02 Level, Body Temperature, Pulse Rate and Blood Pressure as well as their  medicines and to monitor the same on a daily and timely basis. This would help the patients monitor their activities and remain assured that they don’t miss on any of these parameters. And also the logs of these would help them easily to consult the doctor as the information is already there in a proper order.
We are also planning to give this info to their loved one’s, so that they can also keep track of their medications.
## Solution
In order to address this problem, the solution or the hack that we have come up with is CoviChecker. CoviChecker is a web application that helps users(patients) to monitor important health parameters like Pulse Rate, Blood Pressure, SpO2 Level and Body Temperature and also ensures the timely intake of medicines as prescribed by the doctor by sending notification within due time. This relieves the patient from the stress of remembering the things. Being in isolation and fighting with stress and anxiety, it becomes quite difficult for a person to actually follow all the routines without a fail. Also, we focused on subsiding the loneliness of the patients by creating a community page where they can interact and also created a ChatBot that will help in clarifying a few general Covid related questions and also would suggest motivational songs and quotes.
Also we will be adding a resources section from where users will be able to get the latest covid resources of their city if they need it.
## Practicality
It is very practical in the present scenario. Considering the seemingly inevitable and inescapable clutches of the virus that all humanity is in, it makes more sense to at least have a tool or an application that helps in giving some respite, howsoever small it may be, to the person suffering from such a terrifying infection. This is our sincere effort in providing the same.

